All right, so one more example.
And again, this is a way
of writing code.
This is not a new topic.
This is how some people do it.
And the reason of the whole series is
to make sure that you don't just
mindlessly write just the loops
and functions and conditionals.
You understand what it takes
to write the industry level
code, production ready code.
So one of the common practice
that you're going to see
is people use dictionaries
instead of repeated cases.
We saw that we can actually,
This whole problem that I'm going
to show you can be done via
the if statements as well.
Can be done by the match
cases as well.
Whatever you want to use,
you can actually use it.
But I will show you a very
interesting example for this
which uses dictionary.
So again this can only be
shown in the code part.
There is no point
of discussing the theory of it.
So I'll just go ahead and say
10 and this will be dictionary,
case, just a file name.
Don't bother too much about it.
All right, so let's just say
we have a users and this is
just a list, ordinary list.
Inside the list we have a sum
of the key value pairs.
So this is how we define
the dictionary, the key value pair.
Each one of them gets an id.
So let's just say this is ID
one and then we get another key
which is total pretty simple.
No problem there.
Hope there is no issue with this.
And we get the total of 100.
And then finally this guy gets
a coupon code and everybody
gets a different coupon code.
Let's just say the coupon code that
he is using is going to be P20.
It could be any coupon code.
No problem there.
And again, this needs to be a string.
So I'll just go ahead
and change this into a string.
I hope there is no issue with this
really simple example.
And we need just three copies of it.
So we'll just go ahead
and change this one.
So this one will be two,
this one will be three.
Let's change the values as well.
This gets 150 and 80.
Whatever you wish to have.
This one is F10.
The first one is P20.
Let's keep all of our
coupon codes in uppercase.
Makes sense.
Most of the coupon codes are
usually in the uppercase.
It's easier and we just
go ahead and say P50.
All right, now we don't
have a mapping of how
the coupon code works.
So I have no idea what P20 means.
I don't have an idea of F10
means all of this.
So for this I'll go ahead and I
can definitely use if else case.
I can go ahead and use match cases
for this one but I'll instead
use discounts as a dictionary.
So this is a dictionary and for
this dictionary I'll mention that
hey, we have created a Coupon
which says P20 and some
of the coupon have a discount value.
Some of them have a flat value.
Like you have seen flat 100
rupees off or flat 50 rupees off
while some of them gets
a discounted like 10% off, 20% off.
So let's just say for this one we get
0 uh.2 and this is
a percentage off and we don't give
any of the flat discount.
Maybe we can give both as well.
Right now that's not the goal.
Another coupon code
that we have is F10.
This one gives again
let's just say 50% off and we have
another one which is P50.
This one gets a flat off.
So you get a 0 here 0.0 or 0
does means the same and this
gives a flat 10 rupees discount.
Now you have to process this
whole users and give them discount
based on the discount.
Now surely you can do a case that hey
if the case matches with P20 I'll
give you the discount like this.
But this is a very
real world scenario.
This is a very real world situation.
This is how a lot of coupon
codes are designed.
This is how you get the value
from the database, all the values
and, and you have to process this
how you're going to do that.
Surely 100% this can be done.
But there is an interesting way
of handling this and this is just
a piece of pure code, no extra
operator or anything like that.
So I can just go ahead and say for
user in users, that's the part once.
All right, we are looping
through all the users.
I hope there is no problem in it.
Now once I'm looping into this
now next thing that I want
to do is find out what are
the discount values into it.
So what I'll do is I'll take
so notice here.
This is a tuple.
This first part will give me
percent, the second part will
give me flat or fixed, whatever
you want to call this.
I will call this one as percent
and this one as fixed.
How you're going to extract
the values, pretty simple.
I'll just say discount and in that
you can use a lot of methods.
I'll just say get, which allows me
to get a specific key.
And the key that I'm going to
provide is going to be the coupon.
All right, let's use
all lowercase coupon.
So discounts gets a coupon.
And we don't want to get just
like this, like coupon.
This will give me nothing.
So I want to go inside this.
So notice here I have
the access of this user.
This user means this
whole access property.
And what I want
to access is this coupon.
So again, let me just remove this.
So inside this get again
by the way, wrong asset.
Let me try it one more time.
I have this get, which is a method.
All right, hope that's clear now.
And now I want to access this user.
Each user looks like this.
So I'll just say hey user, what
property you want to access?
Because it's a key value pair.
Now I'll use square brackets
and I will say coupon.
Make sure you don't do any typo.
This is the property
we are looking for.
So now we have access to this coupon.
And once you have this
I can just go come up here.
So just after the discount you
have grabbed, the get value.
Now in here through this
notice here, we are still
getting this one discounts.
So ultimately the return
value you are going to get.
This is bit interesting is going
to be just like this
and we are going to put 0, comma 0.
So this is the default value.
So if nothing we are able to grab,
this is something that we'll get
in the percent and discount.
So there is no discount,
nothing like that.
What in the case when
there is no coupon.
So this is the value
which takes care of that.
If there is no coupons or you
are not able to access this
key, then the percentage is
zero and the fixed is zero.
That is all very,
very strange syntax.
But just wanted to get you
through with this one.
Now how can we calculate discount
based on this interesting question,
but it's now a math question.
So we'll just go ahead and say
the discount that you are getting is
again whoever is the user and we
want to access the key of total.
Remember the total.
Yep, that what I get.
And in that we are going
to multiply it by percent
and we are going to add a fixed one.
Maybe we have both, maybe
we don't have both.
And then finally we have
the discount calculated.
So you can subtract between
the total and all these things.
I'll just print out a statement
because I want to see all
the values so you can do the math
calculation of subtracting.
Pretty easy.
I will just go ahead and say I
want a user and not any user.
I want to get the ID of it.
So I'll just say id.
So make sure you mention the key
and once we have this
so I'll just say paid.
Next key will be user.
Again the key that I want to
access is total and we'll get
out of it and got discount for
next visit of rupees and then we
simply go ahead and put up a
discount.
There we go.
So I hope this is a little
bit of a too much but this
is the real world code.
I don't want to show you just the toy
applications and the toy projects.
Sometimes it's a lot.
But I hope you get this what we
are seeing and what we have done.
So we have got the discounts
and we got the get
what discounts you want to get.
Whatever the value.
There could be multiple
values repeating and this
code will still work.
This is highly scalable code.
Let's go ahead and save this
and try to run this and see
if we are doing any good.
This is 10th dictionary
and there we go.
So the one, the ID one we should
actually mention the ID but anyways
paid 100 and got a discount
for next visit of 20.
So this is what we have.
So 20 this is what we have.
150 got a discount of 75
because it's a 50% off.
And the third one which paid 80
got a discount of rupees 10.
So hope you can see how
scalable this code is.
We can keep on adding the discount.
We don't worry about
which code gets it.
It needs to have an entry in
the discount and then you can give
the coupon code to any of the user.
So it's a very very interesting point
of how this is being done.
I hope you got the idea of this.
So pretty nice, pretty
interesting part of it.
Hope you all got it.
That is it for this video and let's
catch up in the next one.